Create a longer language intro (#4678)
dart-lang/site-www: src/language/index.md

---
title: Introduction to Dart
description: A brief introduction to Dart programs and important concepts.
short-title: Dart basics
---

This page provides a brief introduction to the Dart language
through samples. 

For more details on the Dart language, see the individual language
pages in the menu.

You might also want to check out the 
[library tour](/guides/libraries/library-tour)
or the [Dart cheatsheet codelab](/codelabs/dart-cheatsheet).

## Hello World

Every app has a `main()` function.
To display text on the console, you can use the top-level `print()` function:

<?code-excerpt "misc/test/samples_test.dart (hello-world)"?>
```dart
void main() {
  print('Hello, World!');
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Might want to be more clear what "arguments" are here, to avoid confusion with function-call arguments. I believe you mean the program or command-line arguments:

```suggestion
Read more about [the `main()` function][] in Dart,
including optional parameters for program arguments.

[the `main()` function]: /language/functions#the-main-function
```

```suggestion
Read more about [the `main()` function][] in Dart,
including optional parameters for command-line arguments.

[the `main()` function]: /language/functions#the-main-function
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's better! I just quickly skimmed the content in that section to grab something to list after "including..."; there wasn't much

---
title: Introduction to Dart
description: A brief introduction to Dart programs and important concepts.
short-title: Dart basics
---

This page provides a brief introduction to the Dart language
through samples. 

> To learn more of the Dart language, 
> see the individual pages
> in the left side menu under **Language**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about the Dart language, 
visit the in-depth, individual topic pages
listed under **Language** in the left side menu.
```

Reviewer: Nice cleanup :)

> You might also want to check out the 
> [library tour](/guides/libraries/library-tour)
> or the [Dart cheatsheet codelab](/codelabs/dart-cheatsheet).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For coverage of Dart's core libraries, check out the [library tour](/guides/libraries/library-tour).
You can also visit the [Dart cheatsheet codelab](/codelabs/dart-cheatsheet),
for a more hands-on introduction.
```

Reviewer: Nice calls to action here.

## Hello World

Every app has a `main()` function.
To display text on the console, you can use the top-level `print()` function:

<?code-excerpt "misc/test/samples_test.dart (hello-world)"?>
```dart
void main() {
  print('Hello, World!');
}
```

## Variables

> Even in type-safe Dart code, most variables don't need explicit types,
> thanks to type inference:

Reviewer: Use relative links and consider mentioning `final` too:

```suggestion
Even in [type-safe](/language/type-system) Dart code,
you can declare most variables without explicitly
specifying their type using `var` or `final`.
Thanks to type inference, 
these variables' types are determined by their initial values:
```

    [exception][] being raised while the code executes.

## Additional resources

More code samples are in the the
[library tour](/guides/libraries/library-tour)
and the [Dart API reference,]({{site.dart-api}}).

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is the best place for the note. Perhaps earlier on or at the end of **Important concepts** and still in a note-alert like before?

> 

Reviewer 2: Sure, I like those ideas. I'm prefer further towards the end just because I don't think Effective Dart is useful for _most_ people fresh off the intro page. It's definitely more already-in-the-weeds-developing kind of guidance
